docs: Add TLS Certs Setup Guide (#7110)
determined-ai/determined: docs/setup-cluster/security/tls.rst

your system administrator; in any case, if you confirm the connection to the master, the certificate
will be stored on the computer where the CLI is being run and future connections to the master will
be made without confirmation.

*************************************
 Let's Encrypt TLS Certificate Setup
*************************************

> This section describes how to set up the Let's Encrypt TLS certificate.
> 
> Installing a Let's Encrypt TLS certificate requires an ACME protocol client ``certbot`` and one of
> the following domain token verification methods:
> 
> -  HTTP-01, or
> -  DNS-01

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes how to set up a TLS certificate from `Let's Encrypt
<https://letsencrypt.org>`__ using `Certbot <https://certbot.eff.org/>`__ and either the HTTP-01 or
the DNS-01 challenge type.
```

Also, there really ought to actually be a section about using the HTTP-01 challenge, instead of only jumping to the behind-a-VPN scenario. And there should be something about how to pick which one to use (which is sort of implicitly described below, but it's buried instead of right here at the top).

Author: @ioga or @dzhu please provide the content that you want added.

Reviewer 2: I am okay with the existing content...

.. note::

>    For more information about the domain token verification methods, visit `Let's Encrypt

Author: resolved

   documentation <https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/>`_.

Prerequisites
=============

> You must have ``snapd`` installed to use ``certbot``.

Author: confirmed that user needs snapd installed because the preferred way to install is to use snap packages, e.g., sudo snap install --classic certbot

> Installing Snapd and Certbot

Author: resolved

============================

> This section provides information about installing ``snapd`` and ``certbot`` and adding EPEL to RHEL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section provides information about installing snapd and Certbot and adding EPEL to RHEL
```

8 or CentOS 8.

> The following websites provide more information about installing ``snapd`` and ``certbot``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following websites provide more information about installing snapd and Certbot:
```

-  `Installing snap on Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL)
   <https://snapcraft.io/docs/installing-snap-on-red-hat>`_
-  `Installing snap on CentOS <https://snapcraft.io/docs/installing-snap-on-centos>`_
-  `certbot instructions <https://certbot.eff.org/instructions?ws=other&os=centosrhel8>`_

Adding EPEL to RHEL 8
---------------------

To add the EPEL repository to a RHEL 8 system, run the following commands:

.. code:: bash

   sudo dnf install https://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/epel-release-latest-8.noarch.rpm
   sudo dnf upgrade

Adding EPEL to CentOS 8
-----------------------

> To add the EPEL repository to a CentOS 8/9 Stream system, run the following commands:

Author: resolved

.. code:: bash

   sudo dnf install epel-release
   sudo dnf upgrade

Installing Snapd Software
-------------------------

> To install ``snapd``, run the following commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install snapd, run the following commands:
```

.. code:: bash

   sudo yum install snapd
   sudo systemctl enable --now snapd.socket
   sudo ln -s /var/lib/snapd/snap /snap

.. note::

>    On Debian/Ubuntu, ``snapd`` is usually already installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   On Debian/Ubuntu, snapd is usually already installed.
```
And if snapd turns out not to be necessary on Debian/Ubuntu, then remove this line entirely.

> Installing Certbot Software

Author: resolved

---------------------------

> To install ``certbot``, run the following command:

Author: resolved

.. code:: bash

   sudo snap install --classic certbot

> To install ``certbot`` on Debian/Ubuntu, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install Certbot on Debian/Ubuntu, run the following command:
```

.. code:: bash

   sudo apt-get install certbot

Certbot Certificate Request
===========================

> To complete the ``certbot`` certificate request, execute the following steps as root user:

Author: resolved

> -  Account registration
> -  Manual certificate request
> -  MLDE Master configuration to point to the certificate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  register a Let's Encrypt account
-  perform a certificate request
-  update the MLDE master configuration to use the certificate
```

The steps are described in detail in the following sections.

Account Registration
--------------------

> To register the account on Let's Encrypt, run the following command:

Author: resolved

.. code:: bash

>    # certbot register

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   certbot register
```

Author: resolved

Certbot responds letting you know the account is registered.

To check the account status, run the following command:

.. code:: bash

>    # certbot show_account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   certbot show_account
```

Certbot responds with the account details including the account URL, thumbprint, and email contact.

Certificate Creation When the Determined Master is Behind a VPN
---------------------------------------------------------------

This section provides information about requesting the Let's Encrypt certificate in environments
that do not provide inbound access from Let’s Encrypt to port Determined Master server port 80

> (e.g., when Determined Master is behind a VPN).

Author: resolved

> Request the Let's Encrypt Certificate using the DNS-01 Challenge

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Request a Certificate using the DNS-01 Challenge Type
```

Author: resolved

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Run the following command to request the Let's Encrypt certificate using the DNS-01 challenge domain
> verification:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command to request a Let's Encrypt certificate using the DNS-01 challenge type:
```

Author: resolved

.. code:: bash

>    # certbot certonly --manual --preferred-challenges dns -d <domain>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   certbot certonly --manual --preferred-challenges dns -d <domain>
```

Author: resolved

> Certbot responds and lets you know that before continuing you should verify the TXT record has been
> deployed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Certbot responds with a domain token and lets you know that before continuing you should verify the TXT record has been
deployed:
```

Author: resolved

.. code::

   Saving debug log to /var/log/letsencrypt/letsencrypt.log
   Requesting a certificate for <domain>

   Please deploy a DNS TXT record under the name:

   _acme-challenge.<domain>.

   with the following value:

   <XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX domain token>

   Before continuing, verify the TXT record has been deployed. Depending on the DNS
   provider, this may take some time, from a few seconds to multiple minutes. You can
   check if it has finished deploying with the aid of online tools, such as the Google
   Admin Toolbox: https://toolbox.googleapps.com/apps/dig/#TXT/_acme-challenge.<domain>.
   Look for one or more bolded line(s) below the line ';ANSWER'. It should show the
   value(s) you've just added.

   Press Enter to Continue

.. caution::

   DO NOT PRESS ENTER BEFORE SETTING UP THE DNS RECORD

> Set Up the DNS Record Before Pressing ``ENTER``

Author: resolved

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> DNS TXT Record example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the DNS configuration for the domain the Determined master is using, create a record with the following values:
```

Author: resolved

+---------------------------------+-------------+-----+-------------------------------------------------+
| FQDN                            | RECORD TYPE | TTL | Value                                           |
+=================================+=============+=====+=================================================+
| _acme-challenge.<domain>.       | TXT         | 900 | <XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX  |
|                                 |             |     | domain token>                                   |
+---------------------------------+-------------+-----+-------------------------------------------------+

Ensure the ``_acme-challenge.<domain>.`` DNS record has been propagated using one of the following:

-  ``https://toolbox.googleapps.com/apps/dig/#TXT/_acme-challenge.<domain>.``, or
-  ``nslookup -type=TXT _acme-challenge.<domain>.``

.. note::

   You may need to install bind-utils to run ``nslookup`` using the following command:

   .. code:: bash

>       yum install bind-utils

Author: for review

.. note::

   You may need to install BIND and its utilities to run ``nslookup``.

   To install BIND and its utilities on CentOS:

   .. code:: bash

      yum install bind-utils

   To install BIND and its utilities on Debian/Ubuntu:

   .. code:: bash

      apt-get install bind9 bind9utils bind9-doc dnsutils

>       yum install bind-utils

Author: resolved in slack

> Press ``ENTER``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Complete the Certificate Request
```

Author: resolved

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Once you have set up the DNS record, press **Enter**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have set up the DNS record, press Enter.
```

Author: Where a user interacts with the name of the command, the commands is in boldface type.

Certbot responds, letting you know it has received the certificate. Certbot provides the certificate

> location, key and the certificate expiration date.

Author: Certbot lets you know it has received the certificate and provides the certificate location, key location, and certificate expiration date.

> .. Important::

Author: resolved

>    To renew the certificate repeat the certificate creation steps.

Author: resolved, requires re-review

Determined Master TLS Configuration
===================================

This section describes how to use the TLS certs provided by the Let’s Encrypt service.

First, stop the Determined Master with the following command:

.. code:: bash

>    systemctl stop determined-master

Reviewer: This assumes how Determined was installed, which I don't think this document should do. I would imagine it should say something like "refer to the relevant instructions for your installation method...".

Author: keeping the instructions as an example 

e.g., stop/start the Determined master using the appropriate command. For example, if you installed
Determined using Linux packages, run the following command:

> Then, change the security branch of the ``master.yaml`` by adding the following configuration:

Author: resolved

.. code:: bash

   security:

   tls:

      cert: /etc/letsencrypt/live/<domain>/fullchain.pem

      key: /etc/letsencrypt/live/<domain>/privkey.pem

> Eventually, change the master port:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, change the master port if appropriate:
```

Author: resolved

> Eventually, change the master port:

Reviewer 2: not sure "eventually" was intended here, perhaps:

```suggestion
Additionally, change the master port:
```

.. code:: bash

>    # master port
>    port: 443

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   port: 443
```

Author: resolved

> .. Important::

Author: resolved i think, keeps coming back

   You'll need to configure the agents to reach this port.

Finally, start the Determined Master with the following command:

.. code:: bash

   systemctl start determined-master

After a certificate renewal, you must restart the Determined Master using the following command:

.. code:: bash

>    systemctl restart determined-master

Reviewer: Same thing as above about assuming the installation method.

And, as always, it is "master", not "Master".

Author: resolved

your system administrator; in any case, if you confirm the connection to the master, the certificate
will be stored on the computer where the CLI is being run and future connections to the master will
be made without confirmation.

*************************************
 Let's Encrypt TLS Certificate Setup
*************************************

This section describes how to set up a TLS certificate from `Let's Encrypt
<https://letsencrypt.org>`__ using `Certbot <https://certbot.eff.org/>`__ and either the HTTP-01 or

> DNS-01 challenge type.

Author: resolved

.. note::

   For more information about the challenge types, visit the `Let's Encrypt documentation
   <https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/>`_.

Prerequisites
=============

> You must have snapd installed to use Certbot.

Author: removed the prerequisites

-  `certbot instructions <https://certbot.eff.org/instructions?ws=other&os=centosrhel8>`_

Adding EPEL to RHEL 8
---------------------

To add the EPEL repository to a RHEL 8 system, run the following commands:

.. code:: bash

   sudo dnf install https://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/epel-release-latest-8.noarch.rpm
   sudo dnf upgrade

Adding EPEL to CentOS 8
-----------------------

To add the EPEL repository to a CentOS Stream 8/9 system, run the following commands:

.. code:: bash

   sudo dnf install epel-release
   sudo dnf upgrade

Installing snapd
----------------

To install snapd, run the following commands:

.. code:: bash

   sudo yum install snapd
   sudo systemctl enable --now snapd.socket
   sudo ln -s /var/lib/snapd/snap /snap

.. note::

   On Debian/Ubuntu, snapd is usually already installed.

Installing Certbot
------------------

To install Certbot on RHEL or CentOS, run the following command:

.. code:: bash

   sudo snap install --classic certbot

To install Certbot on Debian/Ubuntu, run the following command:

.. code:: bash

   sudo apt-get install certbot

Certbot Certificate Request
===========================

> To complete the Certbot certificate request, execute the following steps as root user:

Author: resolved

.. code:: bash

   certbot certonly --manual --preferred-challenges dns -d <domain>

Certbot responds with a domain token and lets you know that before continuing you should verify that
the TXT record has been deployed:

.. code::

   Saving debug log to /var/log/letsencrypt/letsencrypt.log
   Requesting a certificate for <domain>

   Please deploy a DNS TXT record under the name:

   _acme-challenge.<domain>.

   with the following value:

   <XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX domain token>

   Before continuing, verify the TXT record has been deployed. Depending on the DNS
   provider, this may take some time, from a few seconds to multiple minutes. You can
   check if it has finished deploying with the aid of online tools, such as the Google
   Admin Toolbox: https://toolbox.googleapps.com/apps/dig/#TXT/_acme-challenge.<domain>.
   Look for one or more bolded line(s) below the line ';ANSWER'. It should show the
   value(s) you've just added.

   Press Enter to Continue

.. caution::

   Do not press **Enter** before setting up the DNS record.

Set Up the DNS Record
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> DIn the DNS configuration for the domain the Determined master is using, create a record with the

Author: resolved

|                                 |             |     | domain token>                                   |
+---------------------------------+-------------+-----+-------------------------------------------------+

Ensure the ``_acme-challenge.<domain>.`` DNS record has been propagated using one of the following:

-  ``https://toolbox.googleapps.com/apps/dig/#TXT/_acme-challenge.<domain>.``, or
-  ``nslookup -type=TXT _acme-challenge.<domain>.``

.. note::

   You may need to install the ``nslookup`` utility.

   On CentOS:

   .. code:: bash

      yum install bind-utils

   On Debian/Ubuntu:

   .. code:: bash

      apt install dnsutils

Complete the Certificate Request
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Once you have set up the DNS record, press **Enter**.

Certbot lets you know it has received the certificate and provides the certificate location, key
location, and certificate expiration date.

Update the Determined Master TLS Configuration
----------------------------------------------

This section describes how to update the Determined master configuration to use the TLS certificate

> provided by the Let’s Encrypt service.

Author: resolved i think

First, stop the Determined master using the appropriate command. For example, if you installed
Determined using Linux packages, run the following command:

.. code:: bash

   systemctl stop determined-master

Then, change the security section of the master configuration file by adding the following lines:

.. code:: bash

   security:

   tls:
      cert: /etc/letsencrypt/live/<domain>/fullchain.pem
      key: /etc/letsencrypt/live/<domain>/privkey.pem

If appropriate, change the master port:

.. code:: yaml

   port: 443

.. Important::

   You'll need to configure the agents to reach this port.

Finally, start the Determined master using the appropriate command. For example, if you installed
Determined using Linux packages, run the following command:

.. code:: bash

   systemctl start determined-master

> After a certificate renewal, you must restart the Determined master using the following command:
> 
> .. code:: bash
> 
>    systemctl restart determined-master
> 
> Certbot Certificate Renewal
> ===========================
> 
> To renew the certificate, repeat the certificate creation steps, and restart the Determined master.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Certbot Certificate Renewal
===========================

To renew the certificate, repeat the certificate creation steps, and restart the Determined master
using the appropriate command for your installation method. For Linux packages, run the following
command:

.. code:: bash

   systemctl restart determined-master
```

Author: resolved

.. note::

   Most Certbot installations come with automatic renewal. Visit `Setting up automated renewals
   <https://eff-certbot.readthedocs.io/en/stable/using.html#automated-renewals>` to find out more.
   To learn how to test automatic renewal, visit the `certbot instructions

>    <https://certbot.eff.org/instructions?ws=other&os=centosrhel8>`_.

Author: resolved

-  Register a Let's Encrypt account
-  Perform a certificate request
-  Update the Determined master configuration to use the certificate

The steps are described in detail in the following sections.

Register a Let's Encrypt Account
--------------------------------

To register an account on Let's Encrypt, run the following command:

.. code:: bash

   certbot register

Certbot responds letting you know the account is registered.

To check the account status, run the following command:

.. code:: bash

   certbot show_account

Certbot responds with the account details including the account URL, thumbprint, and email contact.

Perform a Certificate Request
-----------------------------

Certificate Creation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If port 80 of the Determined Master is accessible, you can use a simple `HTTP-01 challenge
<https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/#http-01-challenge>`_ type.

Certificate Creation When the Determined Master is Behind a VPN
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section provides information about requesting the Let's Encrypt certificate in environments

> that do not provide inbound access from Let’s Encrypt to port 80 of the Determined master (e.g.,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that do not provide inbound access from Let's Encrypt to port 80 of the Determined master (e.g.,
```

Author: resolved
